README.md, before:

# *Kind* Action

[![](https://github.com/helm/kind-action/workflows/Test/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/helm/kind-action/actions)

A GitHub Action for Kubernetes IN Docker - local clusters for testing Kubernetes using [kubernetes-sigs/kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/).

## Usage

### Pre-requisites

Create a workflow YAML file in your `.github/workflows` directory. An [example workflow](#example-workflow) is available below.
For more information, reference the GitHub Help Documentation for [Creating a workflow file](https://help.github.com/en/articles/configuring-a-workflow#creating-a-workflow-file).

### Inputs

For more information on inputs, see the [API Documentation](https://developer.github.com/v3/repos/releases/#input)

- `version`: The kind version to use (default: `v0.24.0`)
- `config`: The path to the kind config file
- `node_image`: The Docker image for the cluster nodes
- `cluster_name`: The name of the cluster to create (default: `chart-testing`)
- `wait`: The duration to wait for the control plane to become ready (default: `60s`)
- `verbosity`: info log verbosity, higher value produces more output
- `kubectl_version`: The kubectl version to use (default: v1.30.4)
- `registry`: Whether to configure an insecure local registry (default: false)
- `registry_image`: The registry image to use (default: registry:2)
- `registry_name`: The registry name to use (default: kind-registry)
- `registry_port`: The local port used to bind the registry (default: 5000)
- `registry_enable_delete`: Enable delete operations on the registry (default: false)
- `install_only`: Skips cluster creation, only install kind (default: false)
- `ignore_failed_clean`: Whether to ignore the post delete cluster action failing (default: false)
- `cloud_provider`: Whether to use cloud provider loadbalancer (default: false)

### Example Workflow

Create a workflow (eg: `.github/workflows/create-cluster.yml`):

```yaml
name: Create Cluster

on: pull_request

jobs:
  create-cluster:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Create k8s Kind Cluster
        uses: helm/kind-action@v1
```

**Note**: This action supports both `ubuntu-latest` and `macos-latest` runners. When using `macos-latest`, the cloud provider feature will be skipped as it's not available for macOS. Docker Desktop will be automatically started on macOS runners.

### Example Workflow with macOS

```yaml
name: Create Cluster on macOS

on: pull_request

jobs:
  create-cluster:
    runs-on: macos-latest
    steps:
      - name: Create k8s Kind Cluster
        uses: helm/kind-action@v1
```

This uses [@helm/kind-action](https://github.com/helm/kind-action) GitHub Action to spin up a [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) Kubernetes cluster on every Pull Request.
See [@helm/chart-testing-action](https://github.com/helm/chart-testing-action) for a more practical example.

### Configuring Local Registry

Create a workflow (eg: `.github/workflows/create-cluster-with-registry.yml`):


```yaml
name: Create Cluster with Registry

on: pull_request

jobs:
  create-cluster-with-registry:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest  # or macos-latest
    steps:
      - name: Kubernetes KinD Cluster
        id: kind
        uses: helm/kind-action@v1
        with:
          registry: true
          registry_name: my-registry
          registry_port: 5001
          registry_enable_delete: true
```

This will configure the cluster with an insecure local registry at `my-registry:5001` on both the host and within cluster. Subsequent steps can refer to the registry address with the output of the kind setup step (i.e. `${{ steps.kind.outputs.LOCAL_REGISTRY }}`).

**Note**: If `config` option is used, you must manually configure the cluster nodes with registry config dir enabled at `/etc/containerd/certs.d`. For example:

```yaml
kind: Cluster
apiVersion: kind.x-k8s.io/v1alpha4
containerdConfigPatches:
- |-
  [plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri".registry]
    config_path = "/etc/containerd/certs.d"
```

## Code of conduct

Participation in the Helm community is governed by the [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Commit message:

Refactor Docker setup for macOS to require explicit configuration in workflow
- Updated `kind.sh` to provide a clear error message if Docker is not available, along with instructions for setting it up in the workflow.
- Modified `MACOS_SUPPORT.md` to reflect the new requirement for Docker setup in workflows.
- Adjusted `README.md` to inform users that Docker must be configured before using the action on macOS.
- Enhanced GitHub Actions workflows to include Docker setup steps for macOS runners.

README.md, after:

# *Kind* Action

[![](https://github.com/helm/kind-action/workflows/Test/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/helm/kind-action/actions)

A GitHub Action for Kubernetes IN Docker - local clusters for testing Kubernetes using [kubernetes-sigs/kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/).

## Usage

### Pre-requisites

Create a workflow YAML file in your `.github/workflows` directory. An [example workflow](#example-workflow) is available below.
For more information, reference the GitHub Help Documentation for [Creating a workflow file](https://help.github.com/en/articles/configuring-a-workflow#creating-a-workflow-file).

### Inputs

For more information on inputs, see the [API Documentation](https://developer.github.com/v3/repos/releases/#input)

- `version`: The kind version to use (default: `v0.24.0`)
- `config`: The path to the kind config file
- `node_image`: The Docker image for the cluster nodes
- `cluster_name`: The name of the cluster to create (default: `chart-testing`)
- `wait`: The duration to wait for the control plane to become ready (default: `60s`)
- `verbosity`: info log verbosity, higher value produces more output
- `kubectl_version`: The kubectl version to use (default: v1.30.4)
- `registry`: Whether to configure an insecure local registry (default: false)
- `registry_image`: The registry image to use (default: registry:2)
- `registry_name`: The registry name to use (default: kind-registry)
- `registry_port`: The local port used to bind the registry (default: 5000)
- `registry_enable_delete`: Enable delete operations on the registry (default: false)
- `install_only`: Skips cluster creation, only install kind (default: false)
- `ignore_failed_clean`: Whether to ignore the post delete cluster action failing (default: false)
- `cloud_provider`: Whether to use cloud provider loadbalancer (default: false)

### Example Workflow

Create a workflow (eg: `.github/workflows/create-cluster.yml`):

```yaml
name: Create Cluster

on: pull_request

jobs:
  create-cluster:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Create k8s Kind Cluster
        uses: helm/kind-action@v1
```

**Note**: This action supports both `ubuntu-latest` and `macos-latest` runners. When using `macos-latest`, the cloud provider feature will be skipped as it's not available for macOS. Docker must be set up in the workflow before using this action on macOS.

### Example Workflow with macOS

```yaml
name: Create Cluster on macOS

on: pull_request

jobs:
  create-cluster:
    runs-on: macos-latest
    steps:
      - name: Set up Docker
        uses: docker/setup-buildx-action@v3
      
      - name: Create k8s Kind Cluster
        uses: helm/kind-action@v1
```

This uses [@helm/kind-action](https://github.com/helm/kind-action) GitHub Action to spin up a [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) Kubernetes cluster on every Pull Request.
See [@helm/chart-testing-action](https://github.com/helm/chart-testing-action) for a more practical example.

### Configuring Local Registry

Create a workflow (eg: `.github/workflows/create-cluster-with-registry.yml`):


```yaml
name: Create Cluster with Registry

on: pull_request

jobs:
  create-cluster-with-registry:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest  # or macos-latest
    steps:
      # Docker setup is required for macOS
      - name: Set up Docker (macOS only)
        if: runner.os == 'macOS'
        uses: docker/setup-buildx-action@v3
      
      - name: Kubernetes KinD Cluster
        id: kind
        uses: helm/kind-action@v1
        with:
          registry: true
          registry_name: my-registry
          registry_port: 5001
          registry_enable_delete: true
```

This will configure the cluster with an insecure local registry at `my-registry:5001` on both the host and within cluster. Subsequent steps can refer to the registry address with the output of the kind setup step (i.e. `${{ steps.kind.outputs.LOCAL_REGISTRY }}`).

**Note**: If `config` option is used, you must manually configure the cluster nodes with registry config dir enabled at `/etc/containerd/certs.d`. For example:

```yaml
kind: Cluster
apiVersion: kind.x-k8s.io/v1alpha4
containerdConfigPatches:
- |-
  [plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri".registry]
    config_path = "/etc/containerd/certs.d"
```

## Code of conduct

Participation in the Helm community is governed by the [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
